---
title: Providers
description: Nuxt Image supports multiple providers for high performances.
---

## Introduction to Providers

Providers are integrations between Nuxt Image and third-party image transformation services. Each provider is responsible for generating correct URLs for that image transformation service.

Nuxt Image can be configured to work with any external image transformation service. Checkout sidebar for list of preconfigured providers.

If you are looking for a specific provider that is not already supported, you can [create your own provider](/advanced/custom-provider).

Nuxt Image will automatically optimize `<NuxtImg>` or `<NuxtPicture>` sources and accepts all [options](/get-started/configuration) for specified target, except for modifiers that are specific to other providers.

## Default Provider

The default optimizer and provider for Nuxt Image is [ipx](/providers/ipx). Either option can be used without any configuration.

### Local Images

Images should be stored in the `public/` directory of your project.

For example, when using `<NuxtImg src="/nuxt-icon.png" />`, it should be placed in `public/` folder under the path `public/nuxt-icon.png`.

For more information, you can learn more about the [public directory](https://nuxt.com/docs/guide/directory-structure/public).

::note
Image stored in the `assets/` directory are **not** processed with Nuxt Image because those images are managed by your bundler (such as Vite or webpack).
::

### Remote Images

Using default provider, you can also optimize external URLs. For this, you need to add them to [`domains`](/get-started/configuration#domains) option.

You can also add domains for remote images by setting the `NUXT_IMAGE_DOMAINS` environment variable to a comma-separated list of domains.

```bash
NUXT_IMAGE_DOMAINS="example.com,yourdomain.com"
```

### Environment Detection

You can set default provider using `NUXT_IMAGE_PROVIDER` environment variable.

Providers detected automatically:

- [Vercel](/providers/vercel)

### Custom Provider

It is possible to define your own provider, learn more [how to create a custom provider](/advanced/custom-provider).
