---
title: Providers
description: Nuxt Image supports multiple providers for high performances.
---

Providers are integrations between Nuxt Image and third-party image transformation services. Each provider is responsible for generating correct URLs for that image transformation service.

Nuxt Image can be configured to work with any external image transformation service. Checkout sidebar for list of preconfigured providers.

If you are looking for a specific provider that is not already supported, you can [create your own provider](/advanced/custom-provider).

Nuxt Image will automatically optimize `<nuxt-img>` or `<nuxt-picture>` sources and accepts all [options](/api/options/) for specified target, except for modifiers that are specific to other providers.

## Default Provider

The default provider for Nuxt Image is [ipx](/providers/ipx) or [static](/getting-started/static) (for `target: static`). Either option can be used without any configuration.

[Learn more about Nuxt deployment targets](https://nuxtjs.org/docs/2.x/features/deployment-targets)

### Local Images

Images should be stored in the `static/` directory of your project.

For example, when using `<nuxt-img src="/nuxt-icon.png" />`, it should be placed in `static/` folder under the path `static/nuxt-icon.png`.

Image stored in the `assets/` directory are **not** proccessed with Nuxt Image because those images are managed by webpack.

For more information, you can learn more about the [static directory here](https://nuxtjs.org/docs/2.x/directory-structure/static).

### Remote Images

Using default provider, you can also optimize external URLs. For this, you need to add them to [`domains`](/api/options#domains) option.

### Environment Detection

You can set default provider using `NUXT_IMAGE_PROVIDER` environment variable. Providers below, are automatically detected:

- [Vercel](/providers/vercel)
