---
title: Providers
description: "Nuxt Image supports multiple providers for high performances."
category: "Getting Started"
---

## Default provider

Nuxt Image comes with a preconfigured instance of [IPX](/providers/ipx) to provide images transformations based on the [Sharp](https://www.npmjs.com/package/sharp) package. This default provider can be used without any configuration. The module will automatically optimize `<nuxt-img>` or `<nuxt-picture>` sources and accepts all [options](/api/options/), except for any modifiers that are specific to other providers.

With a `server` target, IPX will generate images at runtime. With a `static` target, IPX will generate all optimized assets on running `nuxt generate` and store them in the `dist` folder.

[Learn more about Nuxt deployment targets](https://nuxtjs.org/docs/2.x/features/deployment-targets)

## Image Providers

Providers are integrations between the Nuxt Image module and third-party image transformation services (or, as in the case of `ipx`, a self-hosted/generate-time image transformation service). Each provider is responsible for generating correct URLs for that image transformation service.

Nuxt Image can be configured to work with any external image transformation service. Here is a complete list of providers that are supported out-of-the-box and can be easily configured to use:

- [`Cloudinary`](/providers/cloudinary)
- [`Fastly`](/providers/fastly)
- [`Imgix`](/providers/imgix)
- [`IPX`](/providers/ipx) (selfhosted)
- [`Prismic`](/providers/prismic)
- [`Sanity`](/providers/sanity)
- [`Twicpics`](/providers/twicpics)
- [`Storyblok`](/providers/storyblok)

If you are looking for a specific provider outside of this list, you can [create your own provider](/advanced/custom-provider).
